---
title: "The Old Blog is Dead. Long Live the New Blog!"
date: 2021-07-18T10:34:36-07:00
draft: false
---

Why am I creating a new blog? What was wrong with the old blog? Why don't I use [Medium](https://medium.com)?

The short version: The old blog is frozen in time, like a prince caught in amber
<sup>[1](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nine_Princes_in_Amber)</sup> or a dandy
in aspic <sup>[2](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/A_Dandy_in_Aspic)</sup>. I can no
longer post to it.

The old blog, the _[Pivotal Engineering
Journal](https://tanzu.vmware.com/content/pivotal-engineering-journal)_, was
archived a year after VMware acquired Pivotal. Every acquisition brings changes,
and this was, in the scheme of things, a very minor one. At least they kept the
blog instead of simply discarding it.

Dozens of my blog posts, representing hundreds of hours of work, are now tucked
away in an even smaller corner of the internet. That's okay: technical posts
have a short shelf life. They have served their purpose.

But I cannot lay the fault at the feet of the VMware acquisition; I, too, had a
part: My interest in blogging had waned, my output, diminished.  In times past I
had blogged as frequently as every two months, but then slowed to a crawl: once
every six months, and now it has been over a year since I wrote a technical blog
post.

Then the wind shifted, and I again felt the urge to write. Perhaps VMware had a
corporate blog I could contribute to? I worried that the topics I could blog
about would be limited, my opinions, filtered. I wanted to be able to write
about what interested me and to express my opinions freely.

Perhaps Medium? I discounted that, too, for I find the experience of reading
articles on Medium unpleasant, especially the plaintive warning that accompanies
every post: "You have 2 free member-only stories left this month.  Upgrade for
unlimited access." I wanted my readers to have unfettered access to my writing.

Finally, I like writing in Markdown: less mouse, more keyboard.

The winner? A combination of [Hugo](https://gohugo.io/) and [GitHub
Pages](https://pages.github.com/).
